[DOCS-5689] update IBM jenkins screens (#5247)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/tutorials/tutorial-for-installing-jenkins-on-IBM-Cloud.adoc

---

:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:imagesdir: ../../book/resources/

> You should have an IBM Cloud account, otherwise you can link:http://cloud.ibm.com/registration[register here].
> At the end of the tutorial you will have a cluster with Jenkins up and running.

Reviewer: We could rephrase this slightly, so it reads more as an introduction.
```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates how to deploy Jenkins on IBM Cloud. Before deploying, you should have an IBM Cloud account, otherwise you can link:http://cloud.ibm.com/registration[register here].
At the end of the tutorial, you will have a cluster with Jenkins up and running.
```

> . We will provision a new Kubernetes cluster for you, if you already have one skip to <<Deploy IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in,step 2>>.
> . We will deploy  the <<Deploy IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in,IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in>>, if you already have it skip to <<Deploy Jenkins,step 3>>.
> . We will <<Deploy Jenkins,deploy Jenkins>>.
> . We will <<Verify Jenkins installation,verify jenkins installation>>.

Reviewer: General comment: we should use present tense if possible and avoid future tense. In some cases, it's unavoidable, and that's fine. It's just something to keep in mind.

We can adjust the wording slightly to use present tense and update the jump links to match the suggestions below. (You may want to review the suggestions for these headings below first, to make sure they are acceptable before implementing these suggestions for the overview steps.)

```suggestion
. <<Provisioning a Kubernetes cluster,Provision a Kubernetes cluster>>. If you already have a Kubernetes cluster, you can skip to step 2.
. <<Deploying the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in,Deploy the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in>>. If you have already deployed the the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in, you can skip to step 3.
. <<Deploying Jenkins,Deploy Jenkins>>.
. <<Verifying the Jenkins installation,Verify the Jenkins installation>>.
```

> == Provision Kubernetes cluster

Reviewer: I took a look at some of the other Jenkins' topics and many use gerunds for procedural steps, which also aligns with the CloudBees style guide. I think we could update these heading to align with the other topics.
```suggestion
== Provisioning the Kubernetes cluster
```

. Select *Catalog* in the upper left corner.
. Select *Service* from the catalog.
. Search for *Kubernetes Service* and select it.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/kubernetes-select.png[IBM Kubernetes selection]

You are now at the Kubernetes deployment page, and you need to specify some details about the cluster.

. Choose a plan type of *standard* or *free*.
The free plan only has one worker node and no subnet.

> To provision a standard cluster, you will need to upgrade your account to Pay-As-You-Go.
> .. To upgrade to a Pay-As-You-Go account, complete the following steps:
> ... In the console, go to *Manage* > *Account*.
> ... Select *Account settings*, and then select *Add credit card*.
> ... Enter your payment information, select *Next*, and then submit your information.

Reviewer: I think we can adjust this slightly.
```suggestion
. To provision a standard cluster, you will need to upgrade your account to Pay-As-You-Go. To upgrade to a Pay-As-You-Go account, complete the following steps:
.. In the console, go to Manage > Account.
.. Select **Account settings**, and then select **Add credit card**.
.. Enter your payment information, select **Next**, and then submit your information.
```

. Choose *Classic* or *VPC*, read the link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-infrastructure_providers[docs], and then choose the most suitable type for yourself.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/infra-select.png[IBM infrastructure selection]

. Now choose your location settings.
For more information please visit link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-regions-and-zones#zones[Locations].

> ... Choose *Geography* (continent).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Choose *Geography* (continent).
```

+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/location-geo.png[IBM geo location]

> ... Choose *Single* or *Multizone*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Choose *Single* or *Multizone*.
```

In single zone, your data is kept in only one datacenter.
With Multizone, it is distributed to multiple datacenters, and thus safer in an unforeseen zone failure.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/location-avail.png[IBM available locations]

> ... Choose a *Worker Zone* if using Single zones or **Metro** if using Multizone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Choose a *Worker Zone* if using Single zones or **Metro** if using Multizone.
```

+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/location-worker.png[IBM worker location]

> * If you wish to use Multizone please set up your account with link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/dl?topic=dl-overview-of-virtual-routing-and-forwarding-vrf-on-ibm-cloud[VRF] or link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/vlans?topic=vlans-vlan-spanning#vlan-spanning[enable Vlan spanning].

Reviewer: If this should be a sub-step under the Locations step, I think we can modify the list type slightly.
```suggestion
.. If you wish to use Multizone please set up your account with link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/dl?topic=dl-overview-of-virtual-routing-and-forwarding-vrf-on-ibm-cloud[VRF] or link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/vlans?topic=vlans-vlan-spanning#vlan-spanning[enable Vlan spanning].
```

== Deploy IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in

The Block Storage plug-in is a persistent, high-performance iSCSI storage that you can add to your apps by using Kubernetes Persistent Volumes (PVs).

. Select *Catalog* in the upper left corner.
. Select *Software* from the catalog.
. Search for *IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in* and select it.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/block-search.png[IBM block search]

. On the application page select the _empty dot_ next to the cluster you wish to use.
. Select *Target Namespace* and choose the default Namespace or use a custom Namespace. 
+
NOTE: If you receive an error, please wait 30 minutes for the cluster to finalize.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/block-cluster.png[IBM namespace selection]

. Give a *name* to this workspace.
. Select *Install* and wait for deployment.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/block-storage-create.png[IBM block storage create]

== Deploy Jenkins

We will deploy Jenkins on our cluster.

. Select *Catalog* in the upper left corner.
. Select *Software* from the catalog.
. Search for *Jenkins* and select it.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/search.png[IBM workspace search]

> .  Select IBM Kubernetes Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select **IBM Kubernetes Service**.
```

+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-names.png[IBM workspace name]

. Select which resource group you want to use.
This is for access control and billing purposes.
For more information please visit link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-account_setup#bp_resourcegroups[resource groups].
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-resource.png[Resource details]

. Give *tags* to your Jenkins, for more information visit link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-tag[tags].
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-tags.png[Default value parameters]

. Select *Parameters with default values*.
You can set custom deployment values or use the default ones.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/parameters.png[IBM parameters setup]

. Set the Jenkins password in the parameters.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/password.png[create password instruction]

. After finishing everything, *select* the box next to the agreements and select *install*.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/install.png[Installation instructions]

. The Jenkins workspace will start installing, wait a couple of minutes for this to complete.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/in-progress.png[workspace installation screen]

> . Your  Jenkins workspace has been successfully deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Your Jenkins workspace has been successfully deployed.
```

+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/done.png[IBM workspace deployment screen]

== Verify Jenkins installation

. Go to link:http://cloud.ibm.com/resources[Resources] in your browser.
. Select *Clusters*.
. Select your cluster.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/resource-select.png[Resource selection screen]

. Now you are at you clusters overview.

> ... Select *Actions* in the top right corner of the page.
> ... Select *Web terminal* in the dropdown menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Select *Actions* in the top right corner of the page.
.. Select *Web terminal* in the dropdown menu.
```

+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/cluster-main.png[Clusters overview page]

. Select *Install* and then wait for a couple of minutes.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/terminal-install.jpg[terminal install screen]

. Once installation has completed, you will repeat this process.

... Select *Actions*.
... Select *Web terminal* and a terminal window will open.

. *Type* in the terminal, be sure to change NAMESPACE to the namespace you choose at the deployment setup:
+
[source,bash]
....
$ kubectl get ns
....
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/get-ns.png[get-ns command]
+
[source,bash]
....
$ kubectl get pod -n NAMESPACE -o wide
....
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/get-pods.png[get-pods command]
+
[source,bash]
....
$ kubectl get service -n NAMESPACE
....
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/get-service.png[get-service command]

 * Running Jenkins service will be visible.

> . Copy the *External-IP*, you can access the website on this IP.
> . Paste it into your browser.
> . The Jenkins login portal will be visible.

Reviewer: We could adjust this slightly to remove the list format from the last step, since it's the expected result of completing these steps, and change it to present tense.

```suggestion
. Copy the **External-IP**. You can access the website on this IP.
. Paste it into your browser.
+
The Jenkins login portal should now be visible.
```

---

:toc:
:toclevels: 4
:imagesdir: ../../book/resources/
This tutorial demonstrates how to deploy Jenkins on IBM Cloud.
Before deploying, you should have an IBM Cloud account, otherwise you can link:http://cloud.ibm.com/registration[register here].
At the end of the tutorial you will have a cluster with Jenkins up and running.

To deploy Jenkins on IBM Cloud:

. <<Provisioning a Kubernetes cluster,Provision a Kubernetes Cluster>>.
If you already have a Kubernetes cluster, you can skip to step 2.
. <<Deploying the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in,Deploy IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in>>.
If you have already deployed the the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in, you can skip to step 3.
. <<Deploying Jenkins,Deploy Jenkins>>.

> . <<Verifying the Jenkins installation,Verify the jenkins installation>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. <<Verifying the Jenkins installation,Verify the Jenkins installation>>.
```

== Provisioning a Kubernetes cluster

> 

Reviewer: Generally, I recommend including a small intro for each section, even if only a sentence.

It can seem a little redundant, but I also recommend including a brief lead up to the steps. 

```suggestion
When deploying Jenkins to IBM Cloud, you must first provision a Kubernetes cluster. 

NOTE: If you already have a Kubernetes cluster, you can skip to <<Deploying the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in>>.

To provision a Kubernetes cluster:
```

. Give *tags* to your Jenkins, for more information visit link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-tag[tags].
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-tags.png[Default value parameters]

. Select *Parameters with default values*.
You can set custom deployment values or use the default ones.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/parameters.png[IBM parameters setup]

. Set the Jenkins password in the parameters.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/password.png[create password instruction]

. After finishing everything, *select* the box next to the agreements and select *install*.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/install.png[Installation instructions]

. The Jenkins workspace will start installing, wait a couple of minutes for this to complete.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/in-progress.png[workspace installation screen]

. Your Jenkins workspace has been successfully deployed.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/done.png[IBM workspace deployment screen]

== Verifying the Jenkins installation

. Go to link:http://cloud.ibm.com/resources[Resources] in your browser.
. Select *Clusters*.
. Select your cluster.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/resource-select.png[Resource selection screen]

> 
> . Now you are at you clusters overview.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
Now you are at you clusters overview.
```

. Select *Actions* in the top right corner of the page.
. Select *Web terminal* in the dropdown menu.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/cluster-main.png[Clusters overview page]

. Select *Install* and then wait for a couple of minutes.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/terminal-install.jpg[terminal install screen]

> . Once installation has completed, you will repeat this process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Once installation has completed, you must repeat this process.
```

... Select *Actions*.
... Select *Web terminal* and a terminal window will open.

> . *Type* in the terminal, be sure to change NAMESPACE to the namespace you choose at the deployment setup:

Reviewer: Long-term, I think this sentence could be revised further, to provide more information for each code sample below. However, I'm not sure exactly what each sample is doing. So at a minimum, we could revise it to something like this?
```suggestion
. Type in the terminal. You must change `NAMESPACE` to the namespace you chose during the deployment setup
```

. Select *Service* from the catalog.
. Search for *Kubernetes Service* and select it.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/kubernetes-select.png[IBM Kubernetes selection]
+
You are now at the Kubernetes deployment page, and you need to specify some details about the cluster.

. Choose a plan type of *standard* or *free*.
The free plan only has one worker node and no subnet.
. To provision a standard cluster, you will need to upgrade your account to Pay-As-You-Go.
To upgrade to a Pay-As-You-Go account, complete the following steps:
.. In the console, go to *Manage > Account*
.. Select *Account settings*, and then select *Add credit card*.
.. Enter your payment information, select *Next*, and then submit your information.
. Choose *Classic* or *VPC*, read the link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-infrastructure_providers[docs], and then choose the most suitable type for yourself.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/infra-select.png[IBM infrastructure selection]

. Now choose your location settings.
For more information, please refer to link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-regions-and-zones#zones[Locations].
.. Choose *Geography* (continent).
+

> image::tutorials/IBMCloud/location-geo.png[IBM geo location,]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/location-geo.png[IBM geo location]
```

.. Choose *Single* or *Multizone*.
In single zone, your data is kept in only one datacenter.
With Multizone, it is distributed to multiple datacenters, and thus safer in an unforeseen zone failure.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/location-avail.png[IBM available locations]

.. Choose a *Worker Zone* if using Single zones or **Metro** if using Multizone.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/location-worker.png[IBM worker location]

.. If you wish to use Multizone, set up your account with link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/dl?topic=dl-overview-of-virtual-routing-and-forwarding-vrf-on-ibm-cloud[VRF] or link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/vlans?topic=vlans-vlan-spanning#vlan-spanning[enable VLAN spanning].
+
NOTE: If at your current location selection, there is no available Virtual LAN, a new VLAN is created for you.

. Choose a *Worker node setup* or use the pre-selected one, and then set *Worker node amount per zone*.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/worker-pool.png[IBM worker-pool]

> . Choose *Master Service Endpoint*.

Reviewer: We could update this to match the UI?
```suggestion
. Choose *Master service endpoint*.
```

> . Choose *Master Service Endpoint*.
> 
> .. Choose public-only to make your controller publicly accessible. 
> .. In VRF-enabled accounts, you can choose private-only to make your controller accessible on the private network or via VPN tunnel.
> When you have a VRF-enabled account, your cluster is set up by default to use both private and public endpoints.
> For more information, refer to link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-service-endpoints-overview[endpoints].

Reviewer: Now that I read this more closely, I wonder if we should restructure this slightly?

```suggestion
. Choose a *Master service endpoint*.
+
NOTE: When you have a VRF-enabled account, your cluster is set up to use both private and public endpoints by default. 
You can select **Private endpoint only** to make your controller accessible on the private network or via VPN tunnel. 
You can select **Public endpoint only** to make your controller publicly accessible. 
For more information, refer to link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-service-endpoints-overview[endpoints].
```

+

> image::tutorials/IBMCloud/endpoints.png[IBM endpoints,]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/endpoints.png[IBM endpoints]
```

> . Give this cluster a *name*.

Reviewer: We could update this to match the UI label.
```suggestion
. Enter a *Cluster name*.
```

+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/name-new.png[IBM new cluster name]

> . Apply the desired *tags* to your cluster. For more information, refer to link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-tag[tags].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Apply the desired *Tags* to your cluster. For more information, refer to link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-tag[tags].
```

+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/tasg-new.png[IBM adding tags to cluster]

. Select *Create*.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/create-new.png[IBM new cluster creation]

. Wait for your cluster to be provisioned.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/cluster-prepare.png[IBM cluster provisioning]

> 
> . Your cluster is now ready for usage.

Reviewer: Since not technically a step that customers must follow, we could remove the list syntax?
```suggestion
+
Your cluster is now ready to use.
```

== Deploying Jenkins

Once you have provisioned a Kubernetes cluster and deployed the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in, you can deploy Jenkins on your cluster.

To deploy Jenkins on your cluster:

. Select *Catalog* in the upper left corner.
. Select *Software* from the catalog.
. Search for *Jenkins* and select it.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/search.png[IBM workspace search]

.  Select *IBM Kubernetes Service*.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/target-select.png[IBM Kubernetes selection]

. On the application page, select the _empty dot_ next to the cluster you wish to use.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/cluster-select.png[IBM cluster selection]

. Select *Target namespace* and then choose the default namespace or use a custom one.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-namespace.png[IBM space name]

. Give a unique *Name* to the workspace, that you can easily recognize.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-names.png[IBM workspace name]

. Select the *Resource group* you want to use.
This is for access control and billing purposes.
For more information, please refer to link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-account_setup#bp_resourcegroups[resource groups].
+

> image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-resource.png[Resource details,]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-resource.png[Resource details]
```

. <<Deploying Jenkins,Deploy Jenkins>>.
. <<Verifying the Jenkins installation,Verify the Jenkins installation>>.

== Provisioning a Kubernetes cluster

When deploying Jenkins to IBM Cloud, you must first provision a Kubernetes cluster.

NOTE: If you already have a Kubernetes cluster, you can skip to <<Deploying the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in>>.

To provision a Kubernetes cluster:

. Select *Catalog* in the upper left corner.
. Select *Service* from the catalog.
. Search for *Kubernetes Service* and select it.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/kubernetes-select.png[IBM Kubernetes selection]
+
You are now at the Kubernetes deployment page, and you need to specify some details about the cluster.

. Choose a plan type of *standard* or *free*.
The free plan only has one worker node and no subnet.
. To provision a standard cluster, you will need to upgrade your account to Pay-As-You-Go.
To upgrade to a Pay-As-You-Go account, complete the following steps:
.. In the console, go to *Manage > Account*
.. Select *Account settings*, and then select *Add credit card*.
.. Enter your payment information, select *Next*, and then submit your information.

> . Choose *Classic* or *VPC*, read the link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-infrastructure_providers[docs], and then choose the most suitable type for yourself.

Reviewer 2: I think you invite the reader to read the doc to understand the difference between `Classic` and `VPC`, correct?

```suggestion
. To choose *Classic* or *VPC*, read the link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-infrastructure_providers[docs], and then select the most suitable type for yourself.
```

To deploy Jenkins on your cluster:

. Select *Catalog* in the upper left corner.
. Select *Software* from the catalog.
. Search for *Jenkins* and select it.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/search.png[IBM workspace search]

.  Select *IBM Kubernetes Service*.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/target-select.png[IBM Kubernetes selection]

. On the application page, select the _empty dot_ next to the cluster you wish to use.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/cluster-select.png[IBM cluster selection]

. Select *Target namespace* and then choose the default namespace or use a custom one.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-namespace.png[IBM space name]

. Give a unique *Name* to the workspace, that you can easily recognize.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-names.png[IBM workspace name]

. Select the *Resource group* you want to use.
This is for access control and billing purposes.
For more information, please refer to link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-account_setup#bp_resourcegroups[resource groups].
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-resource.png[Resource details]

> . Assign *tags* to your Jenkins, for more information, refer to link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-tag[tags].

Author: ```suggestion
. Assign *tags* to your Jenkins instance. For more information, refer to link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/account?topic=account-tag[tags].
```

NOTE: If you already have a Kubernetes cluster, you can skip to <<Deploying the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in>>.

To provision a Kubernetes cluster:

. Select *Catalog* in the upper left corner.
. Select *Service* from the catalog.
. Search for *Kubernetes Service* and select it.
+
.Kubernetes search screen
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/kubernetes-select.png[IBM Kubernetes selection,role="screenshot"]
+
You are now at the Kubernetes deployment page, and you need to specify some details about the cluster.

. Choose a plan type of *standard* or *free*.
The free plan only has one worker node and no subnet.
. To provision a standard cluster, you will need to upgrade your account to Pay-As-You-Go.
To upgrade to a Pay-As-You-Go account, complete the following steps:
.. In the console, go to *Manage > Account*
.. Select *Account settings*, and then select *Add credit card*.
.. Enter your payment information, select *Next*, and then submit your information.
. Choose *Classic* or *VPC*, read the link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-infrastructure_providers[docs], and then choose the most suitable type for yourself.
+

> image::tutorials/IBMCloud/infra-select.png[IBM infrastructure selection]

Reviewer: Some images now include the figure references, but others don't. I think we should either include them for all images or not include them for any. Since it doesn't appear the other Jenkins topics include them, you could remove them for now, so they're consistent?

Author: Went with full removal to have everything be consistent with the other tutorial pages. If this is something that ends up being added later to another page, I can always come back and update things.

. Now choose your location settings.

> For more information please visit link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-regions-and-zones#zones[Locations].

Reviewer: I think I missed this one earlier!
```suggestion
For more information, refer to link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-regions-and-zones#zones[Locations].
```

.. Choose *Geography* (continent).
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/location-geo.png[IBM geo location,role="screenshot"]

.. Choose *Single* or *Multizone*.
In single zone, your data is kept in only one datacenter.
With Multizone, it is distributed to multiple datacenters, and thus safer in an unforeseen zone failure.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/location-avail.png[IBM available locations,role="screenshot"]

.. Choose a *Worker Zone* if using Single zones or **Metro** if using Multizone.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/location-worker.png[IBM worker location,role="screenshot"]

> .. If you wish to use Multizone please set up your account with link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/dl?topic=dl-overview-of-virtual-routing-and-forwarding-vrf-on-ibm-cloud[VRF] or link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/vlans?topic=vlans-vlan-spanning#vlan-spanning[enable VLAN spanning].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. If you wish to use Multizone, set up your account with link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/dl?topic=dl-overview-of-virtual-routing-and-forwarding-vrf-on-ibm-cloud[VRF] or link:https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/vlans?topic=vlans-vlan-spanning#vlan-spanning[enable VLAN spanning].
```

+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/block-cluster.png[IBM namespace selection,role="screenshot"]

. Assign a *name* to this workspace.
. Select *Install* and wait for deployment.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/block-storage-create.png[IBM block storage create,role="screenshot"]

== Deploying Jenkins

Once you have provisioned a Kubernetes cluster and deployed the IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in, you can deploy Jenkins on your cluster.

To deploy Jenkins on your cluster:

. Select *Catalog* in the upper left corner.
. Select *Software* from the catalog.
. Search for *Jenkins* and select it.
+
.Jenkins in IBM Cloud
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/search.png[IBM workspace search,role="screenshot"]

.  Select *IBM Kubernetes Service*.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/target-select.png[IBM Kubernetes selection,role="screenshot"]

. On the application page, select the _empty dot_ next to the cluster you wish to use.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/cluster-select.png[IBM cluster selection,role="screenshot"]

. Select *Target namespace* and then choose the default Namespace or use a custom one.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-namespace.png[IBM space name,role="screenshot"]

> . Give a unique *name* to the workspace, that you can easily recognize.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Give a unique *Name* to the workspace, that you can easily recognize.
```

image::tutorials/IBMCloud/in-progress.png[Workspace installation screen,role="screenshot"]
+
Once complete, your Jenkins workspace is now successfully deployed.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/done.png[IBM workspace deployment screen,role="screenshot"]

== Verifying the Jenkins installation

After deploying Jenkins on your cluster, you can verify the Jenkins installation.

To verify the Jenkins installation:

. Go to link:http://cloud.ibm.com/resources[Resources] in your browser.
. Select *Clusters*.
. Select your cluster.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/resource-select.png[Resource selection screen,role="screenshot"]
+
Now you are at your cluster overview.
. Select *Actions* in the top right corner of the page.
. Select *Web terminal* in the dropdown menu.
+
.Cluster overview page
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/cluster-main.png[Clusters overview page,role="screenshot"]

. Select *Install* and then wait for the installation to complete.
+
image::tutorials/IBMCloud/terminal-install.jpg[terminal install screen,role="screenshot"]

. Once installation has completed, you must repeat this process.

.. Select *Actions*.
.. Select *Web terminal* and a terminal window opens.

. *Type* in the terminal.

> You must change `NAMESPACE` to the namespace you choose during the deployment setup.

Reviewer: I believe this should be past tense, since they already chose the namespace during the deployment setup.
```suggestion
You must change `NAMESPACE` to the namespace you chose during the deployment setup.
```

## Step 1 provision Kubernetes Cluster

> * Select the **Catalog** button on the top

Author: Hi @kellie-freeman thanks very much for alerting me on this, since the larger section headings are numbered already, and these are presented as the "main" steps at the top of the page, would it be better to use a different list styling for these?

## Step 2 deploy IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in
The Block Storage plug-in is a persistent, high-performance iSCSI storage that you can add to your apps by using Kubernetes Persistent Volumes (PVs).

* Select the **Catalog** button on the top
* Select **Software** from the catalog
* Search for **IBM Cloud Block Storage plug-in** and select it

image::tutorials/IBMCloud/block-search.png[]

* On the application page Click in the _dot_ next to the cluster, you wish to use
* Select **Enter or Select Namespace** and choose the default Namespace or use a custom one (if you get error please wait 30 minutes for the cluster to finalize)

image::tutorials/IBMCloud/block-cluster.png[]

* Give a **name** to this workspace
* Select **install** and wait for the deployment

image::tutorials/IBMCloud/block-storage-create.png[]

## Step 3 deploy Jenkins

We will deploy Jenkins on our cluster

> * Select the **Catalog** button on the top

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select **Catalog** in the upper left corner.
```

* Select **Software** from the catalog

> * Search for **Jenkins** and select it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Search for **Jenkins** and select it.
```

image::tutorials/IBMCloud/search.png[]

* Please select IBM Kubernetes Service

image::tutorials/IBMCloud/target-select.png[]

> * On the application page select the _dot_ next to the cluster, you wish to use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* On the application page, select the _dot_ next to the cluster you wish to use.
```

image::tutorials/IBMCloud/cluster-select.png[]

> * Select **Enter or Select Namespace** and choose the default Namespace or use a custom one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select **Enter or select a namespace** and then choose the default Namespace or use a custom one.
```

image::tutorials/IBMCloud/details-tags.png[]

> * Select **Parameters with default values**, You can set deployment values or use the default ones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select **Parameters with default values**. You can set deployment values or use the default ones.
```

## Verify Jenkins installation

* Go to http://cloud.ibm.com/resources[Resources] in your browser

> * Select **Clusters**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select **Clusters**.
```

> * Select your Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Select your cluster.
```

image::tutorials/IBMCloud/resource-select.png[]

> * Now you are at you clusters overview, here Select **Actions** and **Web terminal** from the dropdown menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
Now you are at you clusters overview. 
* From the **Actions** from the dropdown menu, select **Web terminal**.
```

Author: ```suggestion
* Now you are at you clusters overview.
From the  **Actions**  menu, select **Web terminal** from the dropdown menu.
```

Author: Hi @kellie-freeman, would my suggestion work in this case as well? I want to make sure that things are described as clearly as possible. Thanks!

image::tutorials/IBMCloud/cluster-main.png[]

* Select **install** - wait couple of minutes

image::tutorials/IBMCloud/terminal-install.jpg[]

> * Select **Actions**

Author: Hi @kellie-freeman thanks for noting this! I was looking at the page, and I believe the difference between the two sets of instructions, is that the first set (line 161) is to install the web terminal function. The second set is post-installation, but includes the same steps, so technically these would be different pieces to the instructions. I could perhaps add in a line saying "once the installation is complete" to the instructions so it's a bit more clear though.
![Screen Shot 2022-06-22 at 1 20 15 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/99040580/175099223-0b0aa845-8a06-4aa6-9e46-c5cdd123cd2b.png)

> * Select **Web terminal** --> a terminal will open up

Author: ```suggestion
* Select **Web terminal**. A terminal window will then open up.
```
